HIF Detection Study
The fault current due to HIFs is small and cannot be detected by relays. Therefore, the aim of this study is to find the phase and location of the HIFs using the transients in voltage measurements. To do so, first, the Daubechies-4 (db-4) discrete wavelet transform (DWT) is applied to the voltage measurements to obtain the scale-2 wavelet transform coefficients (WTC). Later, the normalized wavelet energies of postfault three-phase transient voltages are calculated. Equation (1) shows the calculation of wavelet energies for each of the three phases and (2) normalizes the wavelet energies of the three phases. M shows the number of DWT coefficients in (1). The voltage measurements are captured in 10 ms intervals. The normalized wavelet energies are used as inputs for training and testing of the classification algorithm.
E_Vk=∑_(m=0)^(M-1)▒〖〖WTC〗_k^2 (m) 〗       for k∈{a,b,c}             (1)
E_NVk=E_Vk/(E_Va+E_Vb+E_Vc )               for k∈{a,b,c}            (2)
The test system used in this study is depicted in Fig. 3 and is adapted from [12]. The line parameters are same as Fig. 2 and the length of each line segment as well as the load values are depicted in Fig. 3. The performances of four classification algorithms including KNN, RF, DT, and Support Vector Machine (SVM) for finding the phase and location of fault occurrence are tested. For each phase, a different classification algorithm is trained. For example, phase a has a separate classification algorithm that can detect the fault occurrence in phase a. Three classes are defined. The class “0” stands for no fault in the phase, “1” stands for non-ground fault in the phase, and “2” stands for ground fault in the phase. Similarly, the location of the fault is indicated using the bus numbers where the fault happened. Same method is used for all other phases. The voltage measurements from buses 3 and 4 are used for classification algorithm. Therefore, there are six inputs (two buses, three phases each) to each algorithm and one output. The classification algorithms for this study are coded in Python.

 
Fig. 3. Test system for HIF study
